---
layout: post
title:  "CTCI Chapter 1"
date:   2016-06-2 22:26:33 -0400
published: true
draft: true
---

1.1 Is Unique: Implement an algorithm to determein if a string has all unique characters.

1.2 Check Permutation: Given two strings, write a method to decide if one is a permutation of the other. 

1.3 URLify: Write a method to replace all spaces in a string with '%20' You may assume that the string has sufficient space at the end to hold the additional characters, and that yuou are given the "true" length of the string. 
```
Example 
input: "Mr John Smith    ", 13
output: "Mr%20John%20Smith"
```

1.4 Palindrome Permutation: Given a string, write a function to check if its a permutation of a palindrome. a palindrome is a word or phrase that is the same forwards and backwards. 

```
Example 
input: Tact Coa
output: True ("taco cat", "acto tca")
```

1.5 One Away: There are three types of edits that can be performed on strings: insert a character, remove a character, or replace a character. Given two strings, check if they are one or zero edits away. 

1.6 String Compression: IMplement a method to perform basic string compression using the counts of repeated characters. for example, the string `aabcccccaaa` would become a2b1c5a3. 

1.7 Rotate Matrix: Given an image represented by an NxN matrix , where each pixel in the image is 4 bytes, write a method to rotate the image by 90 Degress. In place?

1.8 Zero Matrix: write an algorithm such that if an element in an MxN is 0, its entire row and column are set to 0.

1.9 String Rotation: Assume you a mehtid isSubstring which checks if one word is a substring of another. Given two strings, s1 and s2 write code to check if s2 is a rotation of s1 y1 using only one call to isSubstring.